-*- Text -*-
This is the GNU mach 1.1 distribution.

This kernel is derived from the Utah kernel source.  We use it to run
the Hurd on.  It is being distributed by us so that we can more easily
modify the source, and so that it will work with the normal GNU coding
standards and Makefile conventions.

libmach, bootloaders, default pagers, and the like are not part of
this distribution.  For libraries, we refer you to the GNU C library,
which has Mach support.  For bootloaders, we refer you to GRUB.  (This
kernel can be loaded by any bootloader that uses the multiboot
standard.)  For default pagers, we refer you to your particular system
that you will run on top of Mach.  The upcoming Hurd distribution
(version 0.2) will contain the code that used to be in the Utah kernel
distributions for doing the work of the default pager.

The interface generator `MiG' is still part of this distribution.
Perhaps at some later point it will be split out, as it surely should
be.

Generic installation instructions may be found in the file INSTALL.

By default, you get a kernel with no device drivers for disks and
network devices.  This is not what you want!  Examine the file
`README-Drivers' in the directory for the machine type your kernel is
on (e.g., `i386/README-Drivers') for a list of configure --enable
switches.  Give the appropriate set for your hardware.  It is
generally safe to specify switches for hardware you don't have; in
this way you can build kernels that work on different physical machine
set ups.

If you want the in-kernel debugger compiled in, specify --enable-kdb
to configure.  This is only useful if you actually anticipate
debugging the kernel, of course.  We don't turn it on be default
because it adds considerably to the unpageable memory footprint of the
kernel.

The specific switches you give to configure are always recorded in the
file `config.status'.  So you can always tell what options you used to
build a particular kernel.

Bug reports relating to this distribution should be sent to
bug-hurd@prep.ai.mit.edu.  Requests for assistance should be made on
help-hurd@prep.ai.mit.edu. 

